# fantasy_battle


Project: Fantasy Battle
Live Site: https://swansavage.github.io/

Summary: You are a knight, come to test his mettle against the best gladiators from all over the land. Take turns attacking and don't be the first to let your health reach zero!

Technologies used: HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery

Description: Fantasy Battle is a standard turn-based fighting game where the user squares off against a computer-controlled opponent as they battle it out to be the first to reduce their adversary's HitPoints to zero. The user's character is a Knight, who must overcome a series of four challengers - the Archer, the Warrior, the Amazon, and the Dark Knight - to achieve his title of greatest gladiator in the land. The user can choose between various actions, each with a different degree of effectiveness and chance of succeeding while the computer-controlled opponent randomly selects from it's repetoire of attacks or defenses. Each opponent has a different set of strengths and weaknesses to truly test the player-Knight's prowess on the battlefield. Will you succeed and defeat them all or will you perish like many before?

Approach: I began with a text outline to make sure my game met the project criteria and set myself some stretch goals. Then I started to develop my user story by writing out the steps a user would take during gameplay and how I might approach creating these by making notes near each step (what datatype to use, whether it will be a function or not, etc). I then moved onto wireframing, which I did in Photoshop, to begin figuring out how I was going to lay out the game. I decided on basing most of the layout on two seperate player-divs as this would enable me to manipulate each player's move seperately in the DOM. Once I had the wireframe complete I translated it to HTML and added minimal styling with CSS so that I could see the seperate the divs on the page. I created the HTML with jQuery in mind, ensuring that I would be able to manipulate everything on the page seperately, or the groups that I needed by assigning specific class and id indications. I began my JS file by creating a class to generate the player and computer character objects, as I had decided they would have similar properties to one another. Before I went too far into my JS, I wanted to test that this approach was working so I set up a click event on one of the player character divs to test it with a simple console.log( ); Unfortunately this was not working (I will explain that below in another section) and I decided that I would pivot my approach to the character creation and just make them each individual objects rather than using a class and constructor. One thing I decided early on is that in order to reach my stretch goals or to come back and work on this project in the future, I would want to make it scalable. With that in mind I created character objects with properties that can be added to in the future and the functions which call on these properties will remain relevant. After the objects were all created, I created some images to give the game a little more life and assigned those images to the different objects and created a background as well. Now I wanted to get them on the page. I created a Start Game sequence through utilizing a modal that appears upon page load and asks the user to enter a name for their Hero, stores the name when the user clicks 'Start' and populates the page with the game interface. I achieved this through a combination of assigning styles in my .css file, javascript for-loops and jQuery DOM manipulation. When I was able to populate the page, I referred back to my user story to inform me how the flow of the game needed to work. Since it was alternating turns I decided to link the player and computer action functions back to one another and added in functions with conditionals to determine when a player had been defeated. Both the win state and lose state were also determined with conditionals and each trigger a seperate modal informing the user that have won or lost and offered a chance to play again which then reloads the page to reset the game. I added in some more styling and fun features like announcing which player attacks first, damage to players, defense increases, and tried to tie the overall look of the game into a coherent theme.


Unsolved Problems: I mentioned above that I originally tried to create the character objects through a JS class/constructor, figuring this would be the most DRY approach, and I eventually ended up going in another direction. After much deliberation and tinkering and eventually seeking the help of a TA we both determined the issue lied somewhere in the incompatibility of the JavaScript class use of 'this' to set properties and jQuery's built-in method that also uses 'this'. When trying to call the methods I created in the class using a jQuery click event, there seemed to be compatibility issue and it kept returning 'undefined', despite MANY tests via various console.logs() that determined it wasn't a sytax or scope error. So, ultimately, in the interest of time and progress I scrapped the class/constructor approach and made seperate objects for each character.

Stretch/Future Goals: As I stated earlier, I created the game with scalability in mind. Some stretch goals (and goals I hope to add when I have time) include: adding more player/computer actions, choosing any character from the game as the user character, allowing the user to create their own character and choose which actions, user-character levels up allowing stat increases, and creating a two-human-player mode. I would also like to include more jQuery/CSS styling to improve the user-experience by adding more turn indicators, tooltips for actions, and a more responsive layout design. I would also like to improve the game balance, I think there is a lot of room to play with the numbers for hit points, defense, hit percentage, damage, etc. to make the game a more fun and strategic experience.
